In the previous video, we already learn how
to remote real device of cisco.
And as I said, in this course, we are not going to use cisco
real device, but we will use Cisco Packet Tracer
Okay let’s just start. In this video we are going
to learn how to remote cisco router and switch
inside cisco packet tracer. First,
let’s import router to our project,
go to network devices, and then here we can see
a router. Here we have many choices of router.
And if we want to use switch, we can go to switch,
and here we also see so many choices of switch.
We will import a router first,
actually you are free to choose
with type of router you want to use.
But along this course, I will use 2811,
because I think the features of this router
is most powerful compare to others type.
And then let’s import a switch. Along this course,
we will use 2 type of switches,
which is 2960 and 3560.
But the configuration between these 2 switch will
be same, so in this case, I will use 2960 first.
In the real device, if we want to remote a
cisco devices, we will need a console cable.
But in Cisco Packet Tracer, we can just click
on the device that we want to configure,
and then go to tab CLI.
Here we can configuring the cisco.
We can also go to the router
and here we also have a CLI tab.
The different between switch and router,
in the switch, we already in like this,
but in the router, there is a question "would you
like to enter the initial configuration dialog?"
We need to answer this question, yes or no.
If we choose yes, the router will be guide us
to configure initial configuration.
Let’s try it, here let’s choose yes.
And here we get a question again. "Would
you like to enter basic management setup?"
Yes again. Okay here we need to input a
hostname, let’s say the hostname is core router,
and then enter enable secret,
this is a password for our router.
And there will be many question about
initial configuration that we need to answer.
But I think, the initial configuration
dialog is little bit confusing,
so usually I choose no in this question.
If we already answer yes like this, we can just
restart the router. In the Cisco Packet Tracer,
here we can go to physical tab. And
then here we can see on or off button.
Here we can see that the light is green,
this is means that our router is on.
Now let’s click this, and the router
now is off. Now let’s click this again
to switch on the router. Okay this
is how we can restart the router
Now let’s go to CLI again. Here we can see that
we have a question again. Now we will choose no.
And here we already in like in the cisco switch.
The different is in the hostname. In the switch,
the default hostname is Switch, and in the
router, the default hostname is Router.
Okay this is the first way to remote cisco
router and switch inside Cisco Packet Tracer.
The second way is we can use a console
cable in Cisco Packet Tracer. Let’s try.
Here we need to import a PC to our
topology. Let’s add 2 PC. The first PC
is used to remote the switch, and the
other PC is used to remote the router.
Next let’s connecting the PC with cisco
devices using console cable. Here we can
choose the blue cable, let’s connect the
cable to the switch, choose console port.
And then to PC 1, here we choose RS
232, this is a serial port in the PC.
Let’s also connecting a
console cable to the router.
Okay now we already connecting the cisco
switch and router to our computer using
console cable. Next we can remote the cisco
switch and router from the PC. Open the PC.
go to desktop, and here we can choose terminal.
This terminal is just like a putty in the real device.
Here we can just click ok. Okay here we
can see that we already inside the cisco switch.
Now we can configuring the cisco switch from
here. This is also work for cisco router.
Here let’s open the PC that connected to the
router using console cable. Go to desktop,
and then open the terminal.
Here we can just click ok.
Okay here we can see that we
already inside the cisco router.
We also can configuring
the cisco router from here.
Okay I think enough for this video. In
the next video, we are going to learn
about basic command in the cisco. Thankyou
for watching and see you on the next video!